# Proposal for PyData NYC 2019 talk

https://pydata.org/nyc2019/proposals/submit/talk/


## Title

Same API, Different Execution

## Description

This talks presents metadsl, a framework for writing APIs in Python that are detached from how they are executed. With it, we can describe concepts like "arrays" that are agnostic to frameworks like Tensorflow or NumPy. It is a base to build scientific computation libraries in Python that are backend agnostic, high performance, and future proof. It also enables increased distributed collaboration, by allowing separate libraries to implement new optimizations or backends, without requiring explicit coordination between them, by using type annotations to help describe our APIs.


## Description

* Overview of motivation
    * New hardware (GPU, TPU, asic) and execution paradigm (distributed, polyhedral compilation)
    * Fragmented array ecosystem (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Tensor Comprehensions, numexpr)
        * Requires reimplementing optimizations on all backends
        * Requires end user libraries (like scikit-learn) to support all backends
        * Different APIs for users to learn
        * Hard to collaborate
    * Need to provide users with some sort of API that they can target, agnostic of optimizations and backends
	    * So can't we just have a `__array_index__` and `__shape__` API in Python that we can all collaborate over?
	    * No, this would be super slow! We don't do our execution in Python.
    * But we do want this sort of API, but instead of doing the execution eagerly, it builds up a representation of the computation we want to do that can then be targeted to different backends
	    * Reference Mathematics of Arrays as original specification of this kind of algebra
* Overview of metadsl, the resulting framework
   * Show how we can go from NumPy like API to LLVM
   * Show integrations with other libraries
	* Also show how this can be embedded in notebooks for context about the execution
* Conclusion
	* How can we encourage distributed collaboration to solve the problems in our ecosystem?
 
